Carbon-Emission

AUTHOR: SHEGU MUSA - twitter.com/shegu88

Muriel is young lady in her early 20s who lived with her parents. She has conducted some research for the past two years about Carbon Emission and its negative effect on the human life and the world at large. Before this time, she always noticed how her father and mother who worked so hard never talk about anything else but the environment, so she made it a habit to converse with them. On this sad day Muriel came to find out that her father was recently diagnosed with Lung Cancer and the doctors told him that his cancer was caused by exposure to high amounts of Carbon Dioxide from the factory he worked.

This sad news made Muriel more interested in finding solutions to the carbon emission issues, on searching for solutions she discovered the increase of carbon emissions has reached such a point that it seems to have gone beyond anything we could ever imagine. The consequences are severe and ominous we could be faced by more hurricanes, hotter temperatures, droughts, famines, extreme weather events and shortage of water. The Climate change could kill more than 500,000 people a year globally by 2050 by making their diets less healthy. every sign has shown that if carbon gas emissions aren't reduced now, the Earth could become uninhabitable in just a few more generations. Knowing she was going to lose her father and many more of her family members, she finally sets out on a part for change and transformation not just to save her dad but to save the world from ruin and self destruction.

But first MOLOCH needs to be conquered and the only way this could happen was through a network state that promotes a world with common goals, a state where human life and Health is valued. A decentralized network state gives the power to the people and not just the nation state. When this is done only then can there be a stop to the troubles and coordination failure in the world. On realizing the true power of a unified world through the network state she got engaged and supported programs like “Merge” a new process introduced by Ethereum to reduce the rate of climate pollution. Today Muriel is making the earth a better place for her family and the world at large.
