AUTHOR: chris jobs - twitter.com/Chrisjobss

FOX IS ALL I NEED!!!
Growing up for me wasn’t normal like every other kid in my block, maybe I would probably say that my parents would win an OSCARS for the world busiest parents. My father, Mr. Reuben is a mechanical engineer and a passionate entrepreneur who runs a company that provides engineering services, including prototyping, research and development. But before my father went into running his own company, he was able to achieve success by getting quality education when he obtained both his bachelors and masters degrees in mechanical engineering and production technology at the most prestigious university in my city and later Considered completing postgraduate study such as the Master of Engineering (Robotics and Mechatronics) in which he spent two years of study. He is always passionate about creating what he called a “near human-like thinking and cognitive machines” that would make life worth living for mankind especially the future generation.  My mom is a professional banker, she majored in accounting during her university years and she is very dedicated and passionate too about her career, which I strongly believe is the major reason why the current financial institution that she works for, don’t want to let go of her regarding her years of experience in the system. Having these amazing personalities as my parents was a gift from above because I wouldn’t have asked for more. They made sure that I had everything I wanted and all the support that I needed but one thing in particular was lacking, you guessed right! I didn’t get the much attention I needed from my parent as a kid because of their work schedules and engagements which is why I want  to share my story concerning my very good “toy friend”  FOX.  According to my dad, in his days in school when he started thinking about life during marriage and having kids he knew full well that due to the nature of his would-be career and the one of my mom that it would be difficult for them to keep up with the daily activities of their children, so from there on, he started thinking of way to create an artificial intelligent machine that would record and attend to most the of the need of their children when they are away from home. He had three major plans on how he wants the machine to operate, function and interact. Firstly, he wanted a robotic that would interact in human-like manner. Secondly, a robotic that would record mainly audio conversation with anyone that interacts with it. And lastly, a robotic that would record virtual activities taking place in the house when they are gone and also be able to access it in the devices any where they are.
	All the plans set out, my dad was able to build my only friend “FOX”, and that’s what he called it. The amazing thing that FOX did for me was making my childhood amazing and full of happy memories, all the built in devices that my dad installed in it covered about 47% of my parents void. The amazing thing about fox is that I can interact with parents through audio and virtual means from anywhere they are by clicking just few buttons on fox just as my dad instructed me to do whenever I come back from school and needed their assistance. Consequently, through that virtual system they where able to monitor my activities and movement around the house and call me back to order whenever I’m about to get myself into danger. I can vividly recall a scenario that I was about pulling my mom’s computer system from the desk in which she normally works from home with, coincidentally, my dad was watching and had to drop a voice note message immediately and fox interpreted it and called me back to order. So many incidents and events that fox helped me out with even up to this moment. For the past few years, fox makes sure that I stay up to date with all of my activities in school, waking me up as early as possible, my piano class, basketball training, and other reminder in which I had previously inputted in the system and forget to attend to it. And whenever I feel like talking about something I talk to fox and technically relating it to my parents which they might end up giving me advise or finding a possible solution to my problem like when I had  my first fight in school with my classmate, George.  Keeping up with school activities was not difficult for me, fox reminded me of my classes and assignments that are due for submission and in situation in which I find something difficult I Can easily relate it to my parents and they will help me out with it. My father installed so many school rhymes like, the Old MacDonald had a farm, ten in the bed, ten green bottles, if you are happy and you it, Mary had a little lamb, row row row your boat, London bridge is falling down and so many others and also mathematical problems in it, which I can play to gain knowledge about a specific problem.  My basketball activities is interesting because each day I come back home I had to record my daily progress when I communicate with fox like my daily 2points, 3points, rebounds, blocks, and so many more. And each time I forgot about my little milestones I can easily refer to fox for clarification. My childhood friends then were jealous of my closeness and fun activities with fox, so they wanted theirs too but My dad stated that he first invented fox to take care of my requirements and not for vast production means when so many of my friends' parents approached him for one and moreover, he told one of them Mrs. Alfred that the toy was on testing phase and he was experimenting the functionalities with me. I dearly wanted my friends to have a toy like fox but my dad knows the best. The pressure got too much that one of the parents kid reported my dad to the community police that my dad is exposing the kid to a dangerous “toy” that can harm kid that are around it. After visiting the house to confirm the claim, the police asked my dad to turn off Fox till they could see how it worked and how it operated as they awaited the report. My dad tried to explain everything to them, but they just told him to let them do their jobs. As a result, my dad decided to cancel the fox mission rather than put my family through a string of embarrassing encounters with the police and neighbors, especially since I am old enough to take care of myself. My dad's actions caused me to become bitter toward my friends and their parents since I believed that neither of them cared about my happiness nor ought to meddle in my connection with Fox. I hope to forgive them but I know fox will never to same.
