




Author: Chibez - twitter.com/Hammychibez

THE DAY THE EARTH DROWNED

It rained heavily today and am so scared… my name is Howell , if you are reading this now then I might be dead, but hopefully you survived the day the earth drowned, I was born and lived in a time when the world witnessed its fastest developments, the world has gone into great test of weapons because of its quest for power and control, Russia, china and many other countries has also refused to control carbon emission, causing great heat to cook up the atmosphere, we didn’t pay attention to warnings and had no idea of the danger we were about to face. The test of nuclear weapons has destroyed the earth’s core causing an enormous earthquake. We can’t blame the earth, it has been broken to its limit at this time and we had to pay for our coordination failures.

Before this time, Back in 2022 the crypto world brought ideas that could change the way we think and operate in hope to make the world a better place for all, but we rejected it, thinking it won’t stand the test of time. Ethereum built projects that could unite and promote the world’s peace and stability, but instead the nation states saw this ideas as a threat to it's sovereignty and not a means or a tool for great and positive improvements. My father, Cary, was a geologist who worked for the government, he warned everyone and told us to expect this day but no one listened. The world powers held so many meetings and yet could not come to a conclusion on how the carbon emission can be controlled neither could they stop countries from testing nuclear missiles underwater and lands killing wildlifes and destroying mother earth.

First it started with heavy floods and then 18 billion tons of Greenland's ice sheet melted over three days due to rising temperatures, an “unusually extensive” impact that rose sea levels,. we knew it was going to get worse if something was not done. but we didn’t stop destroying the earth either. The waste in our waters continued killing the fishes and every aquatic life it could lay its hands on. On the 5th of March 2070. I was on my way back from school, when the earth trembled for the very first time, this time it wasn’t just in one region of the world, it was felt everywhere causing unimaginable disruptions, with this unexpected event everyone around the world came to a conclusion that a great tragedy was upon us, but it was too late, extinction is already before us. I write this later to say goodbye, hopefully if you are reading this later right now, it’s either you weren’t born at this time or you in some way survived the earth's collapse. If you ever find another planet to call home again by any chance, I hope you see and learn from the past mistakes of coordination failure and understand that moloch is the only enemy of man, I hope you seek deeply to do good and always love unity.
